Update "Run Blockchain" index page as per v6 - Closes 1676 (#1684)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run-blockchain/index.adoc

= Running a blockchain node
Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io>

> :toc: preamble

Reviewer: table of contents is not rendered for me?

> :docs_core: lisk-core::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:docs_core: v4@lisk-core::
```

Links should point to the docs for the prerelease version

:url_sdk_plugin_http: lisk-sdk::plugins/http-api-plugin.adoc
:url_api_service_http: api/lisk-service-http.adoc
:url_api_service_rpc: api/lisk-service-rpc.adoc
:url_api_service_pubsub: api/lisk-service-pubsub.adoc
:url_service_setup_docker_coreconfig: lisk-service::setup/docker.adoc#configuring-lisk-core
:url_service_setup_docker: lisk-service::setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_setup_source: lisk-service::setup/source.adoc
:url_communication_protocol: understand-blockchain/sdk/rpc.adoc

// TODO: Create a new section about enabling block generation in the public betanet.
// TODO: Uncomment the text once updated docs are available.

The "Run Blockchain" category contains all the guides concerning the management of a Lisk node and is therefore especially interesting for validators and other Lisk node operators.

== What is a blockchain node?

A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, such as xref:{url_core}[].
Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via P2P.
Together, they form the network that is maintaining the blockchain.

.Various node types of a blockchain network
image::run-blockchain/node-service-network.png[Node network, 800]

> In PoS, only a certain set of nodes is selected by the network to add new blocks to the blockchain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
//TODO: Add link to Lisk PoS explanation, once it is created
In the Lisk PoS, a certain set of validators is selected by the network to add new blocks to the blockchain.
To participate in the block generation process, a validator needs to set up a node and configure it to enable block generation.
```

Reviewer: After checking the rest of the content, I think the text below the diagram should be moved and merged with the content under the "Validator nodes" section.

Furthermore, I think the flow would improve if the sections are ordered like this:

1. What is a blockchain node?
2. Nodes
  2.1 RPC API
3. Validator nodes
4. Service nodes
5. How to set up a node
  5.1 Lisk Core
(later we can add link to Lisk Service here as well)

I think it improves the flow, because we introduce the diagram in the first section, and then explain all the different node types we mention in the diagram right below. And I think it is better with starting explaining the normal nodes first, as validator node is a special case of a normal node.

Then, after we have introduced the different node types and their purpose, we can add the links for helpful related guides below.

> These nodes fulfill a very important role in the network and therefore require certain additional configurations regarding enabling block generation and security measures, as compared to regular nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These nodes are called *validator nodes*.
Validator nodes fulfill a very important role in the network and therefore, they require certain additional configurations regarding enabling block generation and security measures, as compared to regular nodes.
```

:url_service_setup_docker: lisk-service::setup/docker.adoc
:url_service_setup_source: lisk-service::setup/source.adoc

// TODO: Create a new section about enabling block generation in the public betanet
// TODO: Uncomment the text once updated docs are available.
// TODO:

The "Run Blockchain" category contains all the guides concerning the management of a Lisk node and is therefore especially interesting for validators and other operators of a Lisk node.

== What is a blockchain node?

> A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain application, like xref:{url_core}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, like xref:{url_core}[].
```

Author: ```suggestion
A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, such as xref:{url_core}[].
```

> A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain application, like xref:{url_core}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, like xref:{url_core}[].
```

> A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain application, like xref:{url_core}[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A blockchain node is a server with a running blockchain client, like xref:{url_core}[].
```

> Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same blockchain application via P2P.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via P2P.
```

> Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same blockchain application via P2P.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes are usually connected to other nodes running the same client via P2P.
```

Together, they form the network that is maintaining the blockchain.

.Various node types of a blockchain network

> image::run-blockchain/node-service-network.png[Node network, 800]

Reviewer 2: imho, only a very minor point, but just to maintain uniformity here, in the screenshot below of the node descriptions in the existing diagram, we have the "Validator node" and the "Lisk Service node" therefore, we should update the "RPC Node" to "RPC node"
<img width="1392" alt="node-network" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/58468196/209823672-a01cca79-cbc1-487a-a4f2-c569a3b5abb0.png">

> image::run-blockchain/node-service-network.png[Node network, 800]

Reviewer: The picture needs one correction: RPC node is just like other nodes in the diagram, but with enabled RPC API. Would remove the circles and just color/name the RPC nodes differently

Reviewer: Ah, and also the border for the blockchain network is barely visible, please make it more bold

Reviewer: It is still a little misleading now, because it looks like every RPC node is connected to only one node, this is not true. What I meant was not turning the circle into a square, but completely remove it, and turn the "node" connected to it into an RPC node with the respective color

Reviewer: The image looks good now, thanks! 
But I just realized the black color isn't visible in the dark theme, maybe update it to blue or some other color visible on both black/white background

In PoS, only a certain set of nodes is selected by the network to add new blocks to the blockchain.

> These nodes fulfill a very important role in the network and therefore require certain additional configurations regarding enabling block generation and security measures, compared to regular nodes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These nodes fulfill a very important role in the network and therefore require certain additional configurations regarding enabling block generation and security measures, as compared to regular nodes.
```

Additionally, non-validator nodes can be used to create snapshots/backups of the blockchain, if desired.

// === Protecting non-validator nodes

// Opening a node's API to the public exposes the node to certain attacks, and it is recommended to protect the node accordingly, in order to ensure the node keeps running stable.

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection}[].

=== APIs

The following APIs can be enabled in a blockchain node:

* *RPC endpoints*: xref:{url_understand_endpoints}[]
// // * *HTTP API*: xref:{url_sdk_plugin_http}[]

// === How to enable the "Report Misbehavior" plugin

// * xref:{url_run_misbehavior}[]

== Lisk Service nodes

Lisk Service is a data aggregation service that connects to a particular blockchain node and aggregates the blockchain data, to provide enriched API endpoints for other applications and services that rely on data from the blockchain.

=== How to configure a blockchain node for Lisk Service

To connect successfully to a blockchain node with Lisk Service, it is necessary to configure the node accordingly, by enabling the RPC API.

> See the section xref:{url_service_setup_docker_coreconfig}[Configuring Lisk Core] of the Lisk Service setup guide for a concrete example of how to configure Lisk Core so that Lisk Service can connect to it.

Reviewer: This page isn't updated yet, please remove the link for now

* *Docker:* xref:{url_core_setup_docker}[]
* *Source code:* xref:{url_core_setup_source}[]

> == Validator nodes

Reviewer: In the section `How to set up a Lisk Core node` above, please update `blockchain application` to `blockchain client`

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection}[].

=== APIs

The following APIs can be enabled in a blockchain node via the available communication protocols:

* *Supported communication protocols*: xref:{url_communication_protocol}[] 
* *RPC endpoints*: xref:{url_understand_endpoints}[]
// // * *HTTP API*: xref:{url_sdk_plugin_http}[]

// === How to enable the "Report Misbehavior" plugin

// * xref:{url_run_misbehavior}[]

== Lisk Service nodes

Lisk Service is a data aggregation service that connects to a particular blockchain node and aggregates the blockchain data, to provide enriched API endpoints for other applications and services that rely on data from the blockchain.

=== How to configure a blockchain node for Lisk Service

To connect successfully to a blockchain node with Lisk Service, it is necessary to configure the node accordingly, by enabling the RPC API.

// See the section xref:{url_service_setup_docker_coreconfig}[Configuring Lisk Core] of the Lisk Service setup guide for a concrete example of how to configure Lisk Core so that Lisk Service can connect to it.

> === How to set up a Lisk Service node

Reviewer: This content isn't updated yet, so please remove this sections for now.

// This gives validators who don't have enough staking weights a chance to profit from block generation awards as well.

// The random selection of the two standby validators is proportional to their individual staking weight, meaning validators with higher staking weight have a higher chance of getting selected.
// See xref:{url_protocol_selection}[Validator selection] for more information.

// === Protecting forging nodes
// To keep the network healthy, and to not miss any block rewards, it is recommended to implement certain security measures to protect the forging node against attacks and/or failures.

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection_forge}[].

== Nodes

Nodes are, as the name suggests, blockchain nodes without block generation enabled.
This means, non-validator nodes cannot add new blocks to the blockchain themselves, but they can receive and relay new blocks and transactions from and to other nodes in the network.

If not configured otherwise, every installed node is a non-validator node by default.

> Generally, non-validator nodes are used to get data from or send data to the blockchain via one of the available APIs of the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Generally, non-validator nodes are used by external services to get or send data to the blockchain if they have enabled the RPC API.
```

Additionally, non-validator nodes can be used to create snapshots/backups of the blockchain, if desired.

// === Protecting non-validator nodes

// Opening a node's API to the public exposes the node to certain attacks, and it is recommended to protect the node accordingly, in order to ensure the node keeps running stable.

// For more information, see the guide xref:{url_run_protection}[].

> === APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== RPC API
```

> The following APIs can be enabled in a blockchain node via the available communication protocols:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the RPC API of a node is enabled, it allows external services to send queries to the node and/or to subscribe to specific events that are happening in the network.
Depending on the node configuration, an RPC enabled node can accept different communication protocols like HTTP, WS and IPC.
```
